Update pgaudit.mdx (#21832)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/database/extensions/pgaudit.mdx

description: 'Session and object auditing via PostgreSQL standard logging'
---

> [PGAudit](https://www.pgaudit.org) is a PostgreSQL extension that extends PostgreSQL's built-in logging abilities.
> It can be used to selectively track activities within your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PGAudit](https://www.pgaudit.org) is a PostgreSQL extension that extends PostgreSQL's built-in logging abilities. It can be used to selectively track activities within your database.
```

> This aids in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps you with:
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Extension Configuration

> pgaudit can be configured to focus on multiple different levels of precision

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pgaudit can be configured with multiple different levels of precision.
```

> **pgaudit Logging Precision:**

Reviewer 2: the word "precision" isn'tused in pgaudit docs, would want to be cautious of introducing terminology, maybe just saying "different logging modes"

Author: I'll change it to modes

| role     | User management actions (CREATE, DROP, ALTER on users and privileges) | Tracks changes to user permissions and access.                             |
| ddl      | Schema changes (CREATE, DROP, ALTER statements)                       | Monitors modifications to your database structure (tables, indexes, etc.). |
| misc     | Less common commands (FETCH, CHECKPOINT)                              | Captures obscure actions for deeper analysis if needed.                    |
| all      | Everything above                                                      | Comprehensive logging for complete audit trails.                           |

Below is a limited example of how to assign pgaudit to monitor specific categories.

```sql
-- log all CREATE, ALTER, and DROP events
... pgaudit.log = 'ddl';

-- log all CREATE, ALTER, DROP, and SELECT events
... pgaudit.log = 'read, ddl';

-- log nothing
... pgaudit.log = 'none';
```

### Session Logging

When you are connecting in a session environment, such as a PSQL connection, you can configure pgaudit to record events initiated within the session.

<Admonition type="note">

>   The [Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_) is a transactional environment and will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The [Supabase Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_) is a transactional environment and will
```

  not sustain a session
</Admonition>

Inside a session, by default, pgaudit will log nothing:

```sql
--returns 'none'
show pgaudit.log;
```

In the session, you can `SET` the `pgaudit.log` variable to record events:

```sql
-- log CREATE, ALTER, and DROP events
SET pgaudit.log = 'ddl';

-- log all CREATE, ALTER, DROP, and SELECT events
SET pgaudit.log = 'read, ddl';

-- log nothing
SET pgaudit.log = 'none';
```

### User Logging

There are some cases where you may want to monitor a database user's actions. For instance, let's say you connected your database to [Zapier](https://supabase.com/partners/integrations/zapier) and created a custom role for it to use:

```sql
CREATE USER zapier WITH PASSWORD '<new password>';
```

> To ensure reliability, you may want to log all actions initiated by `zapier`. That can be done with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to log all actions initiated by `zapier`, which can be done with the following command:
```

```sql
ALTER ROLE zapier SET pgaudit.log TO 'all';
```

To remove the settings, execute the following code:

```sql
-- disables role's log
ALTER ROLE zapier SET pgaudit.log TO 'none';

> -- check to make sure the changes are finalized:

Author: Disables logging for the zapier role

SELECT
  rolname,
  rolconfig
FROM pg_roles
WHERE rolname = 'zapier';
```

### Global Logging

<Admonition type="caution">

>   Use global logging sparingly as it can generate millions of logs per hour. Consider alternatives

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Use global logging sparingly as it can generate a large amount of logs and make it difficult to find specific events of importance. Consider limiting the scope of what is logged or defer to user logging where possible.
```

  first.
</Admonition>

The below SQL configures pgaudit to record all events associated with the "postgres" role. Since postgres has extensive privileges, this effectively monitors all database activity.

```sql
ALTER ROLE postgres SET pgaudit.log TO 'all';
```

To check if the postgres role is auditing, execute the following command:

```sql
select
  rolname,
  rolconfig
from pg_roles
where rolname = 'postgres';
-- should return a rolconfig path with "pgaudit.log=all" present
```

To remove the settings, execute the following code:

```

> ALTER ROLE postgres SET pgaudit.log TO 'none';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alter role postgres set pgaudit.log to 'none';
```
afaik the sql style should be lowercased.

```

## Object Mode Settings

> With object mode, you assign database users to the `pgaudit.role` variable. Whatever the users could hypothetically do, pgaudit will log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With object mode, you assign database users to the `pgaudit.role` variable to log out events that the users perform.
```

> For re-emphasis: when you assign a role to pgaudit, it logs any actions that role is _capable_ of performing, regardless of who or what actually initiated the event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assigning a role to pgaudit will result in the logging of **any actions** that role is **capable** of performing, _regardless of who or what actually initiated the event_.
```

### Object Logging

To fine-tune what pgaudit will record, you must create a custom database role with limited permissions:

```sql
-- can be named anything

> CREATE ROLE some_audit_role NOINHERIT;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
create role some_audit_role noinherit;
```

```

The `ROLE` cannot be impersonated by any other user. It cannot be logged into or used. In this case, it solely exists to securely define what pgaudit will record.

Once the role is created, you can direct pgaudit to log by assigning it to the `pgaudit.role` variable:

```sql
ALTER ROLE postgres SET pgaudit.role TO 'some_audit_role';
```

You can then assign the role to monitor only approved events, such as `SELECT` statements that include a specific table:

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON random_table TO some_audit_role;
```

With this privilege granted, pgaudit will record all select statements against the `random_table`. Note, that this does include joins that feature the table, too. All privileges can be viewed in the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-priv.html).

If you would no longer like to use object logging, you need to modify the pgaudit.role variable:

```sql
-- change pgaudit.role to no longer reference some_audit_role
ALTER ROLE postgres SET pgaudit.role to '';

-- view if pgaudit.role changed with the following command:
SELECT
  rolname,
  rolconfig
FROM pg_roles
WHERE rolname = 'postgres';
```

> If you are no longer using a `ROLE`, it is best to [`DROP` it](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51256454/cannot-drop-postgresql-role-error-cannot-be-dropped-because-some-objects-depe):

Author: Supabase's [role's docs](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/postgres/roles) doesn't provide instructions on how to `DROP` custom users. I suppose it would be better to add to the docs than link externally

```sql
DROP ROLE some_audit_role;
```

## Interpreting Audit Logs

pgaudit was designed for storing logs as CSV files with the following headers:

> > Copied from the [pgaudit official docs](https://github.com/pgaudit/pgaudit/blob/master/README.md#format)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Referenced from the [pgaudit official docs](https://github.com/pgaudit/pgaudit/blob/master/README.md#format)
```

| CLASS           | e.g., READ, ROLE (see pgaudit.log).                                                                                                       |
| COMMAND         | e.g., ALTER TABLE, SELECT.                                                                                                                |
| OBJECT_TYPE     | TABLE, INDEX, VIEW, etc. Available for SELECT, DML, and most DDL statements.                                                              |
| OBJECT_NAME     | The fully qualified object name (e.g., public.account). Available for SELECT, DML, and most DDL.                                          |
| STATEMENT       | Statement executed on the backend.                                                                                                        |
| PARAMETER       | If pgaudit.log_parameter is set, this field contains the statement parameters as quoted CSV, or \<none\>. Otherwise, it's \<not logged\>. |

A log made from the following create statement:

```sql
create table account (
  id int primary key,
  name text,
  description text
);
```

> Generates the following log in the [Dashboard's Postgres Logs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/explorer):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generates the following log in the [Dashboard's Postgres Logs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs):
```

  id int,
  name text,
  description text
); <not logged>
```

## Finding and Filtering Audit Logs

Logs generated by pgaudit can be found in [Postgres Logs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs?s=AUDIT). To find a specific log, you can use the log explorer. Below is a basic example to extract logs referencing `CREATE TABLE` events

```sql
select
  cast(t.timestamp as datetime) as timestamp,
  event_message
from
  postgres_logs as t
  cross join unnest(metadata) as m
  cross join unnest(m.parsed) as p
where event_message like 'AUDIT%CREATE TABLE%'
order by timestamp desc
limit 100;
```

## Practical Examples

### Monitoring API events

<Admonition type="note">
  API requests are already recorded in the [API Edge
  Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) logs.
</Admonition>

Some users may feel compelled to monitor all write initiated by the API roles:

```sql
ALTER ROLE authenticator SET pgaudit.log TO 'write';

-- the above is the practical equivalent to:

-- ALTER ROLE anon SET pgaudit.log TO 'write';
-- ALTER ROLE authenticated SET pgaudit.log TO 'write';
-- ALTER ROLE service_role SET pgaudit.log TO 'write';
```

> ### Recording pg_cron Executions

Reviewer 2: +1

Cron job executions are recorded by default in Supabase and do not require pgaudit to observe. However, pg_cron only logs start and completion events.

When expanding the capacity of cron logging, pgaudit is not always the best solution. Instead, it's usually better to use function-level logging. Inside, PG_CRON, you can wrap your code in a [database function](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/functions#general-logging).

This approach allows you to customize the log message and makes it easier to filter for cron events.

```sql
-- function executed in a cron job
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION first_cron_job_func()
RETURNS VOID AS $$
BEGIN
    RAISE LOG 'cron job <first-cron-job> started: %', (SELECT NOW());
    -- cron logic
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

-- cron job
SELECT cron.schedule(
    'first-cron-job',
    '* * * * *', -- every minute
    $$
      SELECT first_cron_job_func();
    $$
);
```

### Monitoring the `auth.users` Table

> In the worst case scenario, where a privileged roles' password is exposed, you can use pgaudit to monitor if the `auth.user` table was targeted. It should be stated that API requests are already monitored in the [API Edge Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) and this is more about providing greater clarity about what is happening at the database level.

Reviewer 3: Talking about postgres users and auth users here so might be good to clarify so it is clear for all technical levels

> In the worst case scenario, where a privileged roles' password is exposed, you can use pgaudit to monitor if the `auth.user` table was targeted. It should be stated that API requests are already monitored in the [API Edge Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) and this is more about providing greater clarity about what is happening at the database level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the event of compromised security where a privileged roles' password is exposed, you can use pgaudit to monitor if the `auth.user` table was targeted. This acts as an additional layer of verification, as API request logs are available in the [API Edge Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) logs.
```

Logging `auth.user` should be done in Object Mode and requires a custom role:

```sql
-- create logging role
CREATE ROLE auth_auditor NOINHERIT;

-- give role permission to observe relevant table events
GRANT SELECT ON auth.users TO auth_auditor;
GRANT DELETE ON auth.users TO auth_auditor;

-- assign auth_auditor to pgaudit.role
ALTER ROLE postgres SET pgaudit.role TO 'auth_auditor';

```

With the above code, any query involving reading or deleting the auth.users email column will be logged.

> ## Help! Too many logs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Best Practices

### Over-logging: Help! Too many logs!
```

pgaudit is infamous for creating log-blizzards. If not configured mindfully, you can accidentally log all database events, including background tasks. This can generate millions of logs in a few hours, making it too overwhelming and chaotic to find insight in the logs.

The first step to solve this problem is to identify which database users pgaudit is observing:

```sql
-- find all users monitored by pgaudit
select
  rolname,
  rolconfig
from pg_roles
where
  exists (
    select
      1
    from UNNEST(rolconfig) as c
    where c like '%pgaudit.role%' or c like '%pgaudit.log%'
  );
```

To prevent pgaudit from monitoring the problematic roles, you'll want to change their `pgaudit.log` values to `none` and `pgaudit.role` values to `empty quotes ''`

```sql
  -- Use to disable object level logging
  ALTER ROLE <role name> SET pgaudit.role TO '';

  -- Use to disable global and user level logging
  ALTER ROLE <role name> SET pgaudit.log TO 'none';
```

> ## FAQ

Reviewer 2: maybe can modify this into a best practices section (combined with the above Too many logs section)

#### How can I use pgaudit to debug database functions?

Technically yes, but it is not the best approach. It is better to check out our [function debugging guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/functions#general-logging) instead.

#### How can I download database logs?

> In the [Logs Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs) you can download logs as CSVs. Advanced log drain support is coming soon for Team and above plans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the [Logs Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs) you can download logs as CSVs. 
```
would avoid mentioning future product offerings in case there are adjustments to pricing plans

You can upvote this [feature request](https://github.com/orgs/supabase/discussions/20183) if you'd like this restriction lifted.

#### Why do the official pgaudit docs differ from the Supabase one?

pgaudit allows settings to be applied at 3 database levels:

| Level    | Scope              | Configuration File/Command |
| -------- | ------------------ | -------------------------- |
| System   | Entire server      | ALTER SYSTEM commands      |
| Database | Specific database  | ALTER DATABASE commands    |
| Role     | Specific user/role | ALTER ROLE commands        |

Supabase limits full privileges for file system and database variables, meaning pgaudit modifications can only occur at the ROLE level. Assigning pgaudit to the 'postgres' role provides it with the role's database visibility, allowing ROLE level adjustments a practical alternative to DATABASE/SYSTEM level configurations.

pgaudit's [official documentation](<(https://www.pgaudit.org)>) focuses on system and database level configs, but its docs officially supports ROLE level configs, too:

> > Settings can be specified globally (in postgresql.conf or using ALTER SYSTEM ... SET), at the database level (using ALTER DATABASE ... SET), or at the role level (**using ALTER ROLE ... SET**).

Reviewer 4: I don't think we need to inline this quote here

Reviewer 3: This might be better explained at the top in an admonition to make clear this is Supabase's implementation of pgaudit

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

> ## Extension Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the Extension
```

Better to use the same structure for all headings (verb the noun)

pgaudit can be configured with multiple different levels of precision.

**pgaudit Logging Precision:**

> - **[Session](#session-logging):** Logs activity within a connection, such as an [PSQL](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/connecting-to-postgres#connecting-with-psql) connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Session](#session-logging):** Logs activity within a connection, such as a [PSQL](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/connecting-to-postgres#connecting-with-psql) connection.
```

- **[User](#user-logging):** Logs activity by a particular database user (e.g., anon or postgres).
- **[Global](#global-logging):** Logs activity across the entire database.

> - **[Object](#object-mode-settings):** Logs events related to specific database objects (e.g., the auth.users table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Object](#object-mode-settings):** Logs events related to specific database objects (for example, the auth.users table).
```

| role     | User management actions (CREATE, DROP, ALTER on users and privileges) | Tracks changes to user permissions and access.                             |
| ddl      | Schema changes (CREATE, DROP, ALTER statements)                       | Monitors modifications to your database structure (tables, indexes, etc.). |
| misc     | Less common commands (FETCH, CHECKPOINT)                              | Captures obscure actions for deeper analysis if needed.                    |
| all      | Everything above                                                      | Comprehensive logging for complete audit trails.                           |

Below is a limited example of how to assign pgaudit to monitor specific categories.

```sql
-- log all CREATE, ALTER, and DROP events
... pgaudit.log = 'ddl';

-- log all CREATE, ALTER, DROP, and SELECT events
... pgaudit.log = 'read, ddl';

-- log nothing
... pgaudit.log = 'none';
```

### Session Logging

When you are connecting in a session environment, such as a PSQL connection, you can configure pgaudit to record events initiated within the session.

<Admonition type="note">

>   The [Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_) is a transactional environment and will
>   not sustain a session

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The [Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_) is a transactional environment and will not sustain a session.

```

Adding the empty lines will stop the formatter from breaking the sentences

</Admonition>

Inside a session, by default, pgaudit will log nothing:

```sql

> --returns 'none'

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-- returns 'none'
```

show pgaudit.log;
```

In the session, you can `SET` the `pgaudit.log` variable to record events:

```sql
-- log CREATE, ALTER, and DROP events
SET pgaudit.log = 'ddl';

-- log all CREATE, ALTER, DROP, and SELECT events
SET pgaudit.log = 'read, ddl';

-- log nothing
SET pgaudit.log = 'none';
```

### User Logging

There are some cases where you may want to monitor a database user's actions. For instance, let's say you connected your database to [Zapier](https://supabase.com/partners/integrations/zapier) and created a custom role for it to use:

```sql
CREATE USER zapier WITH PASSWORD '<new password>';
```

You may want to log all actions initiated by `zapier`, which can be done with the following command:

```sql
ALTER ROLE zapier SET pgaudit.log TO 'all';
```

To remove the settings, execute the following code:

```sql
-- disables role's log
ALTER ROLE zapier SET pgaudit.log TO 'none';

-- check to make sure the changes are finalized:
SELECT
  rolname,
  rolconfig
FROM pg_roles
WHERE rolname = 'zapier';
```

### Global Logging

<Admonition type="caution">

>   Use global logging sparingly as it can generate a large amount of logs and make it difficult to find specific events of importance. Consider limiting the scope of what is logged and/or defer to user logging where possible.
>   first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use global logging sparingly as it can generate many logs and make it difficult to find important events. Consider limiting the scope of what is logged or using user logging where possible.
 
```

</Admonition>

> The below SQL configures pgaudit to record all events associated with the "postgres" role. Since postgres has extensive privileges, this effectively monitors all database activity.

Reviewer 5: UPDATE: after reading more below this became clear. Ideally this line should come after the info in https://github.com/supabase/supabase/pull/21832/files#r1515962801

| PARAMETER       | If pgaudit.log_parameter is set, this field contains the statement parameters as quoted CSV, or \<none\>. Otherwise, it's \<not logged\>. |

A log made from the following create statement:

```sql
create table account (
  id int primary key,
  name text,
  description text
);
```

Generates the following log in the [Dashboard's Postgres Logs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs):

```
 AUDIT: SESSION,1,1,DDL,CREATE TABLE,TABLE,public.account,create table account(
  id int,
  name text,
  description text
); <not logged>
```

## Finding and Filtering Audit Logs

Logs generated by pgaudit can be found in [Postgres Logs](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/postgres-logs?s=AUDIT). To find a specific log, you can use the log explorer. Below is a basic example to extract logs referencing `CREATE TABLE` events

```sql
select
  cast(t.timestamp as datetime) as timestamp,
  event_message
from
  postgres_logs as t
  cross join unnest(metadata) as m
  cross join unnest(m.parsed) as p
where event_message like 'AUDIT%CREATE TABLE%'
order by timestamp desc
limit 100;
```

## Practical Examples

### Monitoring API events

> <Admonition type="note">
>   API requests are already recorded in the [API Edge
>   Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) logs.
> </Admonition>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Admonition type="note">

API requests are already recorded in the [API Edge Network](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/logs/edge-logs) logs.

</Admonition>
```
